README.md, before:

# Silly math problems
## Discrete problems
### MultiDimensionalTicTacToe
Claim: For N>2, tic tac toe will always be won by player 1.

Proof:
We only have to proof the game for N=3, since for any N>3, we can choose any three dimensions and win using this subspace. E.g. when playing on $[3]^8$ use the subspace {(x,y,z,1) | x,y,z $\in${1,2,3} }.

Note that, if you were to play a game in more than 3 dimensions, where player 2 would place a circle on a square which was not in the subspace of your choice, you have a free win anyway. Since player 1 can place a piece such that three in a row can be made with the middle element of his chosen 3 dimensional subspace, where we have the condition that the last piece should not be in the set of neighbours of Player 2s circle (which is possible, since the entire 3d playing board can never be contained in the set of neighbours of player 2s circle). Now we can continue with step 3 in the method below. So we do not have to analyse this case any furhter.

Therefore, we consider the space {(x,y,z) | x,y,z $\in${1,2,3} }. A winning tactic for player 1 is the following:

1. Let (2,2,2) be a cross.
2. Suppose that player 2 puts their circle on (x,y,z), place a cross on any of the direct orthogonal neighbours of (x,y,z). Furthermore, the placement (x',y',z') should be such that for at least two of the variables it holds that they do not equal 1. 
3. Player 2 is forced to put a circle, on lets say (x'',y'',z'') to prevent three in a row. Furthermore, due to 2) we have that x'' $\neq$ x, y'' $\neq$ y and z'' $\neq$ z, which means that player 2 can not make three in a row on its next move, irrespective of player 1's move.
4. Player one should place a piece such that it is a neighbour of both (2,2,2) and (x',y',z'), whilst it does not neighbour (x,y,z) or (x'',y'',z''). Therefore making two three in a row threads and having a guaranteed win. 


## Simulations 
This repository contains different simulations of (mathematical) problems. You can find a description of these problems below:


### Seats.py
The problem is defined as follows: Suppose we have a plane which is fully booked. The first person to enter is blind and therefore takes a random seat, if one of the passengers seats is already taken, they will take a random seat as well. 

**What is the probability that the last person to enter the plane will be able to sit in their assigned seat?**

Exact answer: 0.5, this can be easily proven using induction.

### candleColouring.py
Given a NxN grid, where the edges of each unit square are coloured either red or black (with p=0.5), what is the probability that none of the unit squares have all sides coloured the same:

Exact answer: [WILL BE ADDED ONCE SUBMISSIONS CLOSE]

### ClustersEmpirical.py
This file is a study on how well it works if we take a sample of a dataset, after which we use this to create an empirical distribution and try to find the outliers of the data based on this. Which means that we do not have to iterate over the entire dataset. However, the results are quite poor, as can be seen in the result. Furthermore, we can not know for sure that the result of doing this multiple times converges.

### Pi.py
An estimate of Pi by sampling points in the second quadrant of the unit square (using the fact that the estimated ratio of points in the second quadrant and in the unit circle wrt the previous one will be pi) uniformly.

Commit message:

truly fixed the problem now :), added an extra step for initial choice, this should be dependent on the center of the playing field

README.md, after:

# Silly math problems
## Discrete problems
### MultiDimensionalTicTacToe
A small proof about multidimensional tic tac toe. Player 1 starts and plays crosses, player 2 places circles. The goal of the game is to get three crosses/circles in a row.

**Claim** For N>2, tic tac toe will always be won by player 1.

**Proof**
We only have to proof the game for N=3, which is elaborated on below.


In order to reduce the N dimensional problem to a one of dimension 3, we take the following procedure:

1. Let $2^N$ be a cross.
2. Player 2 now must place a circle on a square in $[3]^N$ such that at least one of its components is not equal to 2. Cause pieces can not be placed on top of one another. Let this be at the ith coordinate. 
3. Then Player 1 can continue with step 2 in the methodology below using the following subspace {w$\in [3]^N$ | $w_i, w_{i-1}, w_{i+1}\in [3]$ and $w_j = 0$ for all other indices}. This choice means that the set of neighbours of the circle does not contain the entire 3d subspace. So now we can continue with step 2 of the methodology below. 




Therefore, we consider the space {(x,y,z) | x,y,z $\in${1,2,3} }. A winning tactic for player 1 is the following:

1. Let (2,2,2) be a cross.
2. Suppose that player 2 puts their circle on (x,y,z), place a cross on any of the direct orthogonal neighbours of (x,y,z). Furthermore, the placement (x',y',z') should be such that for at least two of the variables it holds that they do not equal 1. Furthermore, we require that the three in a row opportunity at (x'',y'',z'') is not a neighbour of one (which trivially holds due to the way we placed our cross).
3. Player 2 is forced to put a circle, on (x'',y'',z'') to prevent three in a row. This means that player 2 can not make three in a row on its next move, irrespective of player 1's move.
4. Player one should place a piece such that it is a neighbour of both (2,2,2) and (x',y',z'), whilst it does not neighbour (x,y,z) or (x'',y'',z''). Therefore making two three in a row threads and having a guaranteed win.


**A comment on step 3**
Even in higher than 3 dimensions player 2 is not able to make three in a row on its next move. Assume it was, then there would be a three in a row looking like (x,y,z,0) (x''',y''',z''',i) (x'',y'',z'',0) where i is either equal to 1 or 2, both of which would not be a valid three in a row. 

## Simulations 
This repository contains different simulations of (mathematical) problems. You can find a description of these problems below:


### Seats.py
The problem is defined as follows: Suppose we have a plane which is fully booked. The first person to enter is blind and therefore takes a random seat, if one of the passengers seats is already taken, they will take a random seat as well. 

**What is the probability that the last person to enter the plane will be able to sit in their assigned seat?**

Exact answer: 0.5, this can be easily proven using induction.

### candleColouring.py
Given a NxN grid, where the edges of each unit square are coloured either red or black (with p=0.5), what is the probability that none of the unit squares have all sides coloured the same:

Exact answer: [WILL BE ADDED ONCE SUBMISSIONS CLOSE]

### ClustersEmpirical.py
This file is a study on how well it works if we take a sample of a dataset, after which we use this to create an empirical distribution and try to find the outliers of the data based on this. Which means that we do not have to iterate over the entire dataset. However, the results are quite poor, as can be seen in the result. Furthermore, we can not know for sure that the result of doing this multiple times converges.

### Pi.py
An estimate of Pi by sampling points in the second quadrant of the unit square (using the fact that the estimated ratio of points in the second quadrant and in the unit circle wrt the previous one will be pi) uniformly.
